# Supplementary Material - Machine Learning for Change-Prone Class Prediction: A History-Based Approach

This repository contains the data used in the article Machine Learning for Change-Prone Class Prediction: A History-Based Approach

## Abstract

Classes have a very dynamic life cycle in object-oriented software
projects. They can be created, modified or removed due to differ-
ent reasons. The prediction of prone-change classes in the early
stages of the project positively impact the team’s productivity, the
allocation of resources, and the quality of the software developed.
Existing work uses Machine Learning (ML) and different kind of
class metrics. But a limitation of existing work that they do not con-
sider the temporal dependency between instances in the datasets.
To fulfill such gap, this work introduces an approach based on
the change history of the class in different releases from public
repositories. The approach uses the Sliding Window method, and
adopts as predictors structural and evolutionary metrics, as well
as frequency and diversity of smells. Five projects and four ML
algorithms are used in the evaluation. In the great majority of the
cases our approach overcomes a traditional approach considering
all the indicators. Random Forest presents the best performance and
the use of smell-related information does not impact the results


## Folders

- Datasets: Contains the datasets used in the project
- Docs: Contains the results generated by the scripts
- Results: Contains spreadsheets with processed results used in the article




## Scripts
Each script starts with "main_" and is responsible for some individual part of the process.

- main_orgainic: read json generated by organic and covert to csv  
- main_processMetricsExtractor: extract process metrics from repository  
- main_changeDistillerWrapper: execute changedistiller to extract code changes  
- main_organic: generate a single csv from organic,ck,understand, processmetricstool and changedistiller  
- main_concatenated:  run history-based approach   
- main_tradicional: run tradicional approach  
- main_joinMetrics: join metrics of organic, understand, ck, evolutional and changeDistiller  
- main_analysis: statistical analysys of the datasets  
- main_recurrent: implements recurrent approach (need fixing)  
## Extras

To run the script: python3 main__changeDistillerWrapper.py --pathA --pathB --commits --projectName --absolutePath --mode  

--pathA - path of the project to checkout --pathB - secodary path of the project (each path will be checked out via git) --commits - csv file of commits to be compared (commitA,commitB) --projectName - name of the project --absolutePath - absolute path of the main folder of the script --mode - if tag, the script will compare all commits with tag and ignore the csv file 

Example: 

python3 changeDistiller.py --pathA "/mnt/sda4/projects-smells/results/changeDistiller/projectA/jgit/" --pathB "/mnt/sda4/projects-smells/results/changeDistiller/projectB/jgit/" --commits commits.txt --projectName "jgit" --absolutePath "/mnt/sda4/projects-smells/results/changeDistiller/" --mode "tag" 
